Templates Terminology

Stack: A set of related resources as a single unit

Change set: Before updating a stack, you can generate a change set, which allows to see how the changes will impact the already running resources.
For example, renaming an RDS Instance will Create a new one and Delete the old one. Potentially causing data loss.

SNS Topic: An Amazon SNS topic is a logical access point that acts as a communication channel. A topic lets you group multiple endpoints (such as AWS Lambda, Amazon SQS, HTTP/S, or an email address).
To broadcast the messages of a message-producer system (for example, an e-commerce website) working with multiple other services that require its messages (for example, checkout and fulfillment systems), you can create a topic for your producer system.
The first and most common Amazon SNS task is creating a topic.

High Level CloudFormation: Infrastructure as Code a.k.a Orchestrator.

Templates main components:
    AWSTemplateFormatVersion: "2010-09-09"
    Description: Text to describe the template
    Metadata: Objects that provide additional info to the templates
    Parameters: Pass values into the template at runtime
    Mappings: Keys and values that operate as a lookUp table
    Conditions: Set of conditions of where the resources are created
    Transform: Ways to specify transforms that CF can use to process the template (e.g. including external snippets, or specifying a version of a Serverless application model)
    Resources: Main section, the only required one. Stack resources and properties
    Outputs: Return values on th stack

Conditions and Transform not included in course.

Resources:
    Logical ID: (can be used to reference the resource in other part of the template)
        Type:
        Properties:
            Set of properties...

Resources:
  MyEC2Instance:
    Type: AWS::EC2::Instance
    Properties:
      InstanceType: t2.micro
      ImageId: ami-047a51fa27710816e # Amazon Linux AMI in N.Virginia
      Tags:
        - Key: Name
          Value: DanielExample


